I'm going to ask you some more questions about your family now and how it was for you growing up.
So, were your parents born in London?
My mother was. My father was born in Poland or somewhere in Eastern Europe.
So, had he been here long? Had he grown up? Or had he just come over when he met your mother?
No, he came over when he was 13. And I don't know what age he was when he met my mother.
Right.
But he knew her a while before they married.
Was he working?
Yes. He had brothers and sisters who had come to this country. Most of them were in Merthyr.
Right.
And when he came, he couldn't speak a word of English. But they gave him a tray with handkerchiefs on it
and told him to say handkerchiefs penny each and to sell them at 13. That was...
Yes.
So, presumably the whole family had come over. He hadn't come on his own at 13.
No, he was probably the last to come over on his own. He travelled on his own, I expect.
Yes. So, he travelled over to...but he had older siblings here already who gave him the tray and the handkerchiefs.
Yes.
Right. And they were in London. He came to London to start with.
I don't know if it was to start with or whether it was Merthyr.
Interesting that they came to Merthyr so early on.
I don't know the reason and if I did, I've forgotten it.
Of course, Merthyr was a very busy, booming place because of the industry around the 1900s with the coal industry.
Yes.